Hello.
Welcome to this EarSketch video.
My name is Léa,
and today I'll be talking
about the setEffect function.
SetEffect is used
a lot in EarSketch.
Once you've populated
your tracks with sound samples
using fitMedia,
you can use setEffect
to add effects to your song.
Effects are used in the music
industry to modify sounds.
You can change the volume,
add some reverb or delay,
which are two different
kinds of echo.
You can add tremolo,
a low-pass filter,
a high-pass filter,
and you have
countless possibilities.
With EarSketch,
there are 16 different effects.
To use the setEffect function,
you need to have
four parameters.
First the track where you want
to place your effect,
then the type of effect
you want to use,
the parameter name,
and the value of the parameter.
Let's see this in detail
with a script.
So I created a new script
for this example.
As usual we import
the EarSketch library.
We use this line
to initialize the code
and this one to finish the code,
and we use the setTempo
to set the speed of the song.
We already have a fitMedia here.
Let's listen to it.
[electronic beat]
Now let’s write
our setEffect line.
We have four parameters.
The first one is the track.
Because our sound
is on track 1 already
and we want to modify it,
we're going to apply
the effect to track 1.
The second parameter
is the effect type.
Here we're going to take
the example of volume,
which will determine
if the track is loud or quiet.
To see a list
of all possible effects,
you can use the EarSketch API.
Go to the fourth icon
from the top in the left bar.
This will open
your EarSketch API
it shows all the descriptions
of EarSketch functions.
If you type setEffect
in the search box,
you will see
the possible effect types
that you can use with setEffect.
So back to our parameters.
The third is
the effects parameter.
For volume, it’s gain.
The gain as expressed
in decibels.
It should be between minus 60
decibels and plus 12 decibels.
Gain is just the name
of the parameter.
Then we need to indicate
the value we want for gain.
Let's say we want this track
to be quieter.
We're going to need
a negative value of gain.
Let's try minus 20.
And that's all
for our parameters.
So let's listen to it once again
without the effect.
[electronic beat]
Now let's run the code.
You see that a new line
was added on track 1.
It's the volume
that we are modifying.
Now let's hear it.
[quieter beat]
You can definitely hear
that the sound is quieter.
You can use this
to mix your song,
which means decide which track
needs to be louder
and which track needs
to be quieter.
And that's all for our video.
Thank you for watching
and see you soon.